# Class 1: Setup Developer Toolbelt 12/06/2023

## Reading
### The web
[Getting Started](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web)  
[How the web works](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/How_the_Web_works)  
[Website Design and Process](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/What_will_your_website_look_like)  
[JavaScript Basics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/JavaScript_basics)
### HTML 
[Introduction to HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML)  
[Getting started with HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started)   
[HTML Document Structure](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Document_and_website_structure)   
[Metadata in HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/The_head_metadata_in_HTML)  
### HTML, CSS & JavaScript
[How to start to design a website](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Design_and_accessibility/Thinking_before_coding)  
[Semantics](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Semantics)  
[What is JavaScript?](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/What_is_JavaScript)  


### EXTRA: Learning git branching
[Git branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)

### Git Branching
* git commit: this is basically like taking a snapshot of your project
* git branch X: will create a new branch
* You have to switch the branch from main to the one desired if you want to commit the branch, you do this by:
* git checkout (name of branch)
* You can also create a branch and check it out by:
    * git checkout -b (name of branch)
Then we have to combine the work from two different branches together. This will allow us to branch off, develop a new feature and then combine it back in.  
* git merge: Creates a special commit that has two unique parents: "I want to include all the work from this parent over here and this one over here, and the set of all their parents."  
* git rebase: The second way of combining work between branches is rebasing. Rebasing essentially takes a set of commits, "copies" them, and plops them down somewhere else.

While this sounds confusing, the advantage of rebasing is that it can be used to make a nice linear sequence of commits. The commit log / history of the repository will be a lot cleaner if only rebasing is allowed.

### The Web-shop analogy
You are the client and the server is a shop at the other side of the road. 
* Internet connection: is the road between the house and the shop
* TCP/IP: transport mechanism: define how data travels (bike, car, walkin)
* DNS: Domain name system, address book for website; like looking at the address on google maps
* HTTP: application protocol that defines the language to use.
* Component files: arelike the different parts of the goods to buy from the shop.
    * Code files: HTML, CSS and JS...
    * Assets: Images, videos, music, pdf's...

1. The browser goes to the DNS server, and finds the real address of the server that the website lives on (you find the address of the shop).
2. The browser sends an HTTP request message to the server, asking it to send a copy of the website to the client (you go to the shop and order your goods). This message, and all other data sent between the client and the server, is sent across your internet connection using TCP/IP.
3. If the server approves the client's request, the server sends the client a "200 OK" message, which means "Of course you can look at that website! Here it is", and then starts sending the website's files to the browser as a series of small chunks called data packets (the shop gives you your goods, and you bring them back to your house).
4. The browser assembles the small chunks into a complete web page and displays it to you (the goods arrive at your door — new shiny stuff, awesome!).

### Website design
#### Planning:
1. What is the website about?
2. What information are you presenting on the subject?
3. What does your website look like?

#### Sketch
Sketch out the design in pen and paper: very roughly.

#### Assets
Choose your assets:
* Text
* Theme colout
- Images
- Font


### Javascript basics
querySelector(): grabs a reference to an element (for example a h1).

### Anatomy of an HTML doc
* Opening tah: consists of the name of the element (for exaple p wrapped in open and closing angle brackets).
- The content: this is the content of the element. For example the text in a paragraph
- The closing tag: this i sthe same as the opening tag but has a / infront of the element name.

You can place elements within other elements, this is called **nesting**. 

Not all the elements follow the same pattern. Some elements are self closing, for example the (img).

### Document and website structure
In addition to defining individual parts of your page (such as "a paragraph" or "an image"), HTML also boasts a number of block level elements used to define areas of your website (such as "the header", "the navigation menu", "the main content column"). 

#### Basic sections of a document
* Header: Usually a big strip across the top with a big heading, logo, and perhaps a tagline. This usually stays the same from one webpage to another.
- Navigation bar: Links to the site's main sections; usually represented by menu buttons, links, or tabs.
- Main content: A big area in the center that contains most of the unique content of a given webpage, for example, the video you want to watch, or the main story you're reading, or the map you want to view, or the news headlines, etc. 
- Sidebar: peripheral info, links, quotes, ads... someties secondary navigation system. (aside)
- Footer: a strip across the bottom, contains fine print.

#### HTML layout elements in more detail
- (main) is for content unique to this page. Use <(main)> only once per page, and put it directly inside (body). Ideally this shouldn't be nested within other elements.
- (article) encloses a block of related content that makes sense on its own without the rest of the page (e.g., a single blog post).
- (section) is similar to (article), but it is more for grouping together a single part of the page that constitutes one single piece of functionality (e.g., a mini map, or a set of article headlines and summaries), or a theme. It's considered best practice to begin each section with a heading; also note that you can break (article)s up into different (section)s, or (section)s up into different (article)s, depending on the context.
- (aside) contains content that is not directly related to the main content but can provide additional information indirectly related to it (glossary entries, author biography, related links, etc.).
- (header) represents a group of introductory content. If it is a child of (body) it defines the global header of a webpage, but if it's a child of an (article) or (section) it defines a specific header for that section (try not to confuse this with titles and headings).
- (nav) contains the main navigation functionality for the page. Secondary links, etc., would not go in the navigation.
- (footer) represents a group of end content for a page.

#### Non-semantic wrappers
(div) and (span). Use with a suitable cass attribute to target easily.

#### Line breaks and horizontal rules
(br) breaks a line in a paragraph
(hr) the thematic break element, creates a horizontal tule in the document that denotes a thematic change in the text.

### Metadata in HTML
This is what goes in the head.
The (title) element is metadata that represents the title of the overall HTML document (not the document's content.)  
Specifying your documents character encoding, description, title, icon, links and scripts, language...  
