# Class 2 13/06/2023

## Basics of HTML, CSS & JS

###### Disclaimer: 
###### () is used as opposed to the triangles. Ex: (h1).  
###### Notes are taken from the linked pages at the start of every section.

### Why does it matter?
This will provide a basic understanding of HTML, CSS & Javascript that will be essential to start building our projects. Without the basics we wouldnt know where to start! 

## Introduction to HTML
[Introduction to HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML)  
HTML is a language made up of elements, which give meaning to life! I mean... text...  
Its used to structure a document into logical sections. 

--- 
### The Van-alogy
Lets say you are building a van. First you have to make up a list of the things you want to include, maybe you want to separate it into different elements: 
* Building work (nav, links, body, main... )
    - Floors
    - Electricity
    - Padding
* Furniture (headers, paragraphs, buttons tables...)
    - Bed
    - Kitchenette
    - Storage places
        - Shelves
        - Wardrobe
* Decorations (images, videos ...)
    - Plants
    - Pictures  

#### Right you get the point right? So HTML is where you are defining which of these elements you are going to have in your van.
---

### HTML Text Fundamentals
[HTML Text fundamentals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/HTML_text_fundamentals)
#### Basics: headings and paragraphs
* Paragraph: (p)
* Headings: (h1)...(h6) (1-6 decrease in size.)
    - Only use one h1 per page.
    - Take in mind hierarchy.
    - Aim to not use more than 3 headings (so that its not too confusing.)  

Why is it important? 
* Difficult to read for the user 
* Search engines wont be able to find keywords so it get a horrible ranking: No one will see ur page :(
* Not adapted to visually impaired people
* You need element wrapping so that CSS & Javascript can target it effectively.
* It just looks ~~Sh*t~~ boring ! 

#### Basics: Lists
* Unordered lists: Where the order doesnt matter. Wrap it around (ul) & then wrap the list items around (li).

>ex:
(ul)  
    (li)Rocio(/li)  
    (li)Anna(/li)  
    (li)Louise(/li)  
    (li)Sam(/li)  
    (li)Johnny(/li)  
(/ul)

* Ordered list: Where the item's order does matter. Wrap in (ol) & then (li).

You can also nest lists inside another one. 

#### Emphasis and importance 
* Emphasis: (em). To emphasise a part, using this is recognised by screen readers. But dont use this if you only want to use italics, for that use (span) and add CSS or (i) element. 
* Strong importance: (strong) This is also read by screen readers. Again, if you just want to make it bold use (span) or (b).  

You can nest strong and emphasis inside one another.

#### Italic bold, underline...
These are presentational elements and **Should no longer be used:** Always keep accessibility in mind!
* Bold: (b)
* Italic: (i)
* Underline: (u)

### HTML Advanced text formatting
[HTML Advanced text formatting](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Advanced_text_formatting)

#### Description lists
Third type of lists. 
* Description lists: mark up a set of items and their associated descriptions. (dl) and each term is wrapped in a (dt), and each description is wrapped in (dd).  
You can have multiple descriptions for one term.  

#### Quotations
* Blockquotes: If content is quoted from somewhere else you should use this element and add a URL inside a cite attribute.

Browser default styling will render this as an indented paragraph.

* Inline quotations: Work the same way but use (q) element.

Browser will render these as normal text put in quotes. Intended for short quotes that dont require the indentation.

#### Citations
Using the cite attribute doesnt provide a way to get the browser to display the contants. If you want to make the source of the quotation available on th epage you need to make it available in the text via a different method.  
There is a (cite) element, but this is meant to contain the title of the resource being quoted, e.g. the name of the book. There is no reason, however, why you couldn't link the text inside (cite) to the quote source in some way:

#### Abbreviations
(abbr) is used to wrap around an abbreviation or acronym. Provide a full expansion of the term in plain text on first use, along with (abbr).  This provides a hint to user agents on how to announce/display the content while informing all users what the abbreviation means.  

If providing the expansion in addition to the abbreviation makes little sense, and the abbreviation or acronym is a fairly shortened term, provide the full expansion of the term as the value of title attribute:

#### Marking up contact details
(address) to wrap up contact details. Could contain address, telephone, email...

#### superscript and subscript
Useful to mark items like dates, chemical formulas, equations etc.
Use (sup) and (sub) elements.

#### Representing computer code:
* (code): For marking up generic pieces of computer code.
* (pre): For retaining whitespace (generally code blocks) — if you use indentation or excess whitespace inside your text, browsers will ignore it and you will not see it on your rendered page. If you wrap the text in (pre)(/pre) tags however, your whitespace will be rendered identically to how you see it in your text editor.
* (var): For specifically marking up variable names.
* (kbd): For marking up keyboard (and other types of) input entered into the computer.
* (samp): For marking up the output of a computer program.

#### Marking up times and dates
You can use (time) element for times and dates in a machine-readable format with the datetime attribute.

### Questions
1. Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?  

We need to ensure we are giving the meaning/function/appearance we intend to the elements we use. This will be helpful and used by search engines and screen readers.

2. How many levels of headings are there in HTML?  

6 

3. What are some uses for the (sup) and (sub) elements?  
To do chemical formulas or mathematical expressions/formulas.

4. When using the (abbr) element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?  
title.

## Introduction to CSS
### How CSS is structured
###### Disclaimer: will add the proper notes after i've caught up with the labs & live classes, for now just answering the questions.

### Questions
1. What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?  

External stylesheet, Internal stylesheet and Inline style.

2. Why should we avoid using inline styles?  

It is the least efficient as one style change could require multiple edits within a single web page, and it also mixes CSS with presentational code with HTML Content.
[reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/First_steps/How_CSS_is_structured)

3. Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:
* What is representing the selector?  

h2  

* Which components are the CSS declarations?  

color: black & padding: 5px
* Which components are considered properties?   

color & padding

>ex: 
h2 {  
    color: black;  
    padding: 5px;  
}

## Intro to Javascript
### Javascript basics
(read from Comments to Events)
###### Disclaimer: will add the proper notes after i've caught up with the labs & live classes, for now just answering the questions.

### Questions
1. What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?  

String.
2. List 4 types of JavaScript operators.  

* Addition +
* Subtraction - 
* Multiplication * 
* Division / 
3. Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.  

You could do a function that could convert Degrees Celcius to Fahrenheit or vice versa. 

### Conditionals
###### Disclaimer: will add the proper notes after i've caught up with the labs & live classes, for now just answering the questions.

### Questions
1. An if statement checks a __ and if it evaluates to ___, then the code block will execute.  

Condition, true.  

2. What is the use of an else if?  

So that we can have more than two choices or outcomes to the if... else (as this would only have 2 options)

3. List 3 different types of comparison operators.  

* "===" value is identical to
* ">" value is greater than
* ">=" vale is greater than or equal to

4. What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?  

The first is an AND operator, so both conditions have to be met for it to be true, whereas the latter is an OR operator which will evaluate to true if one or more expressions are met.


---
### Bookmark and review
[add a title once I know what it is](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)

--- 
## Thinks I want to know more about

