# Class 3: Lists, The Box model and Loops 14/06/2023

## Reading
HTML:
[Ordered list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ol)  
[Unordered list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ul)
CSS:
[The box model](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)
JS:
[Arrays](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays)  
[Operators and expressions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Expressions_and_Operators)  
[Conditionals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals)
[Loops](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code)  

## Lists
### Ordered list
(ol): ordered list of items. (typically numbered list).  
This element also accepts global attributes such as:
- reversed: numbers will be numbered from high to low
- start: an integer to start counting from for the list items. For example, to start numbering elements from the letter d or the roman number iv use start = "4"
- type: sets the numbering type.
    - a for lowercase letters
    - A for uppercase letters
    - i for lowercase Roman numerals
    - I for uppercase Roman numerals
    - 1 for number (default)

You can nest uordered lists inside ordered lists. 

### Unordered list
(ul): unordered list of items. (Typically bulleted lists)
Includes global attributes such as:
- compact: This Boolean attribute hints that the list should be rendered in a compact style. **DEPRACATED**
- type: circle, disc and square. (Triangle also used but not supported in all browsers)

### Questions
1. When should you use an unordered list in your HTML document? 

When the order of the list is not relevant. 

2. How do you change the bullet style of unordered list items?

using the attribute type: 

3. When should you use an ordered list vs an unorder list in your HTML document?

You should use an ordered list when the order of the list elements matters, such as the steps in a recipe, if it doesnt then use unordered list.

4. Describe two ways you can change the numbers on list items provided by an ordered list?

using the type attribute where you can set it to letters, roman numbers etc. you can also change the initia counter with the start attribute.


## The box model
### Block and inline boxes
The type refers to how the box behaves in terms of page flow and in relation to oter boxes on the page. boxes have an inner display type and an outer display type. In general, you can set various values for the display type using the display property, which can have various values.  

### Outer display type
If a box has an outer display type of block (
h1, p elements use block as their outer display by default ), then:

- The box will break onto a new line.
- The width and height properties are respected.
- Padding, margin and border will cause other elements to be pushed away from the box.
- If width is not specified, the box will extend in the inline direction to fill the space available in its container. In most cases, the box will become as wide as its container, filling up 100% of the space available.

If a box has an outer display type of inline (like a, span, em and strong), then:
- The box will not break onto a new line.
- The width and height properties will not apply.
- Top and bottom padding, margins, and borders will apply but will not cause other inline boxes to move away from the box.
- Left and right padding, margins, and borders will apply and will cause other inline boxes to move away from the box.


### inner display type
Boxes also have an inner display type, which dictates how elements inside that box are laid out.  
You can change the inner display type for example by setting display:flex.

### What is the CSS box model
The CSS box model as a whole applies to block boxes and defines how the different parts of a box — margin, border, padding, and content — work together to create a box that you can see on a page. Inline boxes use just some of the behavior defined in the box model.

### Margins, padding and borders
#### Margin
The margin is an invisible space around your box. It pushes other elements away from the box. Margins can have positive or negative values. Setting a negative margin on one side of your box can cause it to overlap other things on the page. Whether you are using the standard or alternative box model, the margin is always added after the size of the visible box has been calculated.
**Margin collapsing** Depending on whether two elements whose margins touch have positive or negative margins, the results will be different:

Two positive margins will combine to become one margin. Its size will be equal to the largest individual margin.
Two negative margins will collapse and the smallest (furthest from zero) value will be used.
If one margin is negative, its value will be subtracted from the total.

#### Padding
The padding sits between the border and the content area and is used to push the content away from the border. Unlike margins, you cannot have a negative padding. Any background applied to your element will display behind the padding.

#### Borders
The border is drawn between the margin and the padding of a box. If you are using the standard box model, the size of the border is added to the width and height of the content box. If you are using the alternative box model then the size of the border makes the content box smaller as it takes up some of that available width and height of the element box.

#### Inline-block
Use this if you dont want an item to break into a new line bt you want the width and height to be respected.  
Use case: Where this can be useful is when you want to give a link a larger hit area by adding padding. <a> is an inline element like (span); you can use display: inline-block to allow padding to be set on it, making it easier for a user to click the link.

## Arrays
### What is an Array?
"List-like object": single object that contains multiple values stored in a list.   
Arrays consist of square brackets and items that are separated by commas.  
in an array we can store various data types — strings, numbers, objects, and even other arrays. We can also mix data types in a single array — we do not have to limit ourselves to storing only numbers in one array, and in another only strings.  
>Ex:  
const sequence = [1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13];
const random = ["tree", 795, [0, 1, 2]];

### Finding the length of an Array
You can use the property .length. This can be very useful when looping through an array.

### Accessing and modifying array items
Arrays are zero indexed ( each value in the array is numbered starting from zero).
>Ex:  
const shopping = ["bread", "milk", "cheese"];  
console.log(shopping[0];  
//would return "bread")  

You can also modify an item in an array by giving a single item in the array a new value.
>Ex:
 shopping[0] = "hummus"
 console.log(shopping);  
 // would return: ["hummus", "milk", "cheese"]  

 Note that an array inside an array is called a multidimensional array. You can access an item inside an array that is itself inside another array by chaining two sets of square brackets together.
 >Ex:  
 const random = ["tree", 795, [0, 1, 2]];  
random[2][2];  

### Finding the index of items in an array
if you dont know the index of an item, you can use the indexOf() method. It takes an argument and will either return the items number or -1 if the item is not in the array. 
>Ex:  
const birds = ["Parrot", "Falcon", "Owl"];  
console.log(birds.indexOf("Owl")); //  2  
console.log(birds.indexOf("Rabbit")); // -1  

### Adding/removing items
+ To add one or more items to the end of an array we can use push(). Note that you need to include one or more items that you want to add to the end of your array.
>Ex;   
const cities = ["Manchester", "Liverpool"];  
cities.push("Cardiff");  
console.log(cities); // [ "Manchester", "Liverpool", "Cardiff" ]  
cities.push("Bradford", "Brighton");  
console.log(cities); // [ "Manchester", "Liverpool", "Cardiff", "Bradford", "Brighton" ]  

+ To add an item to the start of the array, use unshift():
+ To remove the last item from the array, use pop().
+ To remove the first item from an array, use shift():
+ If you know the index of an item, you can remove it from the array using splice():
>Ex:  
const cities = ["Manchester", "Liverpool", "Edinburgh", "Carlisle"];  
const index = cities.indexOf("Liverpool");  
if (index !== -1) {  
  cities.splice(index, 1);  
}  
console.log(cities); // [ "Manchester", "Edinburgh", "Carlisle" ]    

In this call to splice(), the first argument says where to start removing items, and the second argument says how many items should be removed. So you can remove more than one item:
>Ex:  
const cities = ["Manchester", "Liverpool", "Edinburgh", "Carlisle"];
const index = cities.indexOf("Liverpool");
if (index !== -1) {
  cities.splice(index, 2);
}
console.log(cities); // [ "Manchester", "Carlisle" ]  

### Accessing every item
Very often you will want to access every item in the array. You can do this using the for...of statement:
>Ex:  
const birds = ["Parrot", "Falcon", "Owl"];  

for (const bird of birds) {  
  console.log(bird);  
}

Sometimes you will want to do the same thing to each item in an array, leaving you with an array containing the changed items. You can do this using map(). The code below takes an array of numbers and doubles each number:  
>Ex:  
function double(number) {  
  return number * 2;  
}  
const numbers = [5, 2, 7, 6];  
const doubled = numbers.map(double);  
console.log(doubled); // [ 10, 4, 14, 12 ]  

Sometimes you'll want to create a new array containing only the items in the original array that match some test. You can do that using filter(). The code below takes an array of strings and returns an array containing just the strings that are greater than 8 characters long:  
>Ex:  
function isLong(city) {  
  return city.length > 8;  
}  
const cities = ["London", "Liverpool", "Totnes", "Edinburgh"];  
const longer = cities.filter(isLong);  
console.log(longer); // [ "Liverpool", "Edinburgh" ]  

### Converting between strings and arrays
use the split() method. In its simplest form, this takes a single parameter, the character you want to separate the string at, and returns the substrings between the separator as items in an array.  
You can also go the opposite way using the join() method. 
Another way of converting an array to a string is to use the toString() method. toString() is arguably simpler than join() as it doesn't take a parameter, but more limiting. With join() you can specify different separators, whereas toString() always uses a comma.
