# Class 4: Links, Layouts and Functions 15/06/2023

## Reading
HTML  
[Creating Hyperlinks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Creating_hyperlinks)  
CSS Layout  
[CSS Layout: Normal Flow](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Normal_Flow)  
[CSS Layout: Positioning](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Positioning)    
[Learn JS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions)

## Creating Hyperlinks
Hyperlinks allow us to link documents to other documents or resources, link to specific parts of documents or make apps available at a web address.  
A basic link is created by wrapping the text or other content inside an **(a)** element and using the *href* attribute, also known as a Hypertext Reference, or target, that contains the web address.
You can also make headers links by wrapping the h1 inside an a element.  
If you want to make an image a link use the **(a)** element to wrap the image file referenced with the (img) element.

### Adding supporting information
 You can add another attribute such as a title, which contains additional information about the link.

### Document fragments
 Its possible to link a specific part of an HTML document rather than the top of the document. To do this you have to assign an id attribute. Then to link to that specific id, you'd include it at the end of the URL, preceded by a hash/pound symbol (#):
 >Ex:  
 (h2 id="Mailing_address")Mailling address(/h2)  
 (a href="contacts.html#Mailing_address")mailing address(/a)

 ### Best practice
 Use clear link wording, dont add URL to link name, provide sufficient context but not too much. Easy to read, easy to understand what it is.

 ### Use download
 Use download attribute when linking to a download file to provide a default save filename.

 ## CSS Layout
 ### Normal Flow
 Elements on a webpage lay out in normal flow if you haven't applied any CSS to change the way they behave

 ### How are elements laid out by default?
 By default, a block-level element's content fills the available inline space of the parent element containing it, growing along the block dimension to accommodate its content. The size of inline-level elements is just the size of their content. You can set width or height on some elements that have a default display property value of inline, like (img), but display value will still remain inline.  
By default, **block-level** elements are laid out in the block flow direction, which is based on the parent's writing mode (initial: horizontal-tb). Each element will appear on a new line below the last one, with each one separated by whatever margin that's been specified.  
**Inline** elements behave differently. They don't appear on new lines; instead, they all sit on the same line along with any adjacent (or wrapped) text content as long as there is space for them to do so inside the width of the parent block level element. If there isn't space, then the overflowing content will move down to a new line.  
If two vertically adjacent elements both have a margin set on them and their margins touch, the larger of the two margins remains and the smaller one disappears. This is known as **margin collapsing**. Collapsing margins is only relevant in the vertical direction.

 ### Positioning
 Positioning allows you to take elements out of normal document flow and make them behave differently, for example, by sitting on top of one another or by always remaining in the same place inside the browser viewport.  

 ### Static positioning
 Default positioning every element gets.

 ### Relative positioning
 Similar to static positioning, except that once the positioned element has taken its place in the normal flow, you can then modify its final position, including making it overlap other elements on the page.  
 top, bottom, left, and right are used alongside position to specify exactly where to move the positioned element to.  
 >Ex: So, for example, if you specify top: 30px;, it's as if a force will push the top of the box, causing it to move downwards by 30px.  

 ### Absolute positioning
 An absolutely positioned element no longer exists in the normal document flow.  
This is very useful: it means that we can create isolated UI features that don't interfere with the layout of other elements on the page. For example, popup information boxes, control menus, rollover panels, UI features that can be dragged and dropped anywhere on the page, and so on.

### Positioning contexts


 