# Class 6: Programming in JavaScript 08/06/2023
## Dynamic web pages with javaScript
## Pre-reading
Read  
[MDN Control Flow](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Control_flow)   
Read & demo
[Functions](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_functions.asp)  
[Operators](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_operators.asp)  
Skim
[Expressions and Operators](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Expressions_and_Operators)  
[Functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Functions)  

Youtube plalist:  
[How computers work ](https://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/css/reset/)

### Notes

### Control Flow
The *control flow* is the order in which the computer executes statements in a script.
Code is run in order from the first line in the file to the last line, unless the computer runs across the (extremely frequent) structures that change the control flow, such as conditionals and loops.

### Functions
A JavaScript function is a block of code designed to perform a particular task.

In JavaScript we use the function keyword for this followed by the name of the new function. Then the list of parameters in parentheses and then a block of expressions in curly braces. This is the body of the function.

Function arguments are the values received by the function when it is invoked.

Inside the function, the arguments (the parameters) behave as local variables.


>Ex:  
function show() {  
  console.log('Hello World');  
}  
console.log('before');  
show();  
console.log('after');  

You can call a function multiple times.  

You can alo provide *parameters*.  
>Ex:  
function show(name) {  
  console.log('Hello ', name);  
}  
show('Foo');  
show('Bar');  
show('Zorg');  

>The output will be:  
Hello Foo  
Hello Bar  
Hello Zorg  

In the function declaration we wrote that we are going to accept a single value and we want it to be assigned to the name variable. Then, we called the function and passed a value to it. In every call we passed a different value.

Inside the function the name variable holds the current value.

#### Funtion invocation

A JavaScript function is executed when "something" invokes it (calls it).  

* When an event occurs (when a user clicks a button)
* When it is invoked (called) from JavaScript code
* Automatically (self invoked)

#### Function return
When JavaScript reaches a return statement, the function will stop executing.

If the function was invoked from a statement, JavaScript will "return" to execute the code after the invoking statement.

Functions often compute a return value. The return value is "returned" back to the "caller":

> Ex: // Function is called, the return value will end up in x  
let x = myFunction(4, 3);  

function myFunction(a, b) {  
// Function returns the product of a and b  
  return a * b;  
}  

#### Why functions?
with functions you can reuse code.  
you can write code that can be used many times.
You can use the same code with different arguments, to produce different results.

#### The () operator
Used to invoke a function.  
Accessing a function with incorrect parameters can return an incorrect answer  
Accessing a function without () returns the function and not the function result:

#### Functions used as variable values
You can use functions just like variables, so instead of assigning a variable to the answer of the funciton you can straight away put the function

>ex:  
let text = 'The temperature is ' + toCelcius(77) + ' Celsius';

#### Local Variables
Variables declared within a JavaScript function become **local** to the function and hence can only be accessed from within the function.
>Ex: 
// code here can NOT use carName  
function myFunction() {  
  let carName = "Volvo";  
  // code here CAN use carName  
}  
// code here can NOT use carName  

Variables with the same name can be used in different functions.

### Operators
The Addition Operator + adds numbers:  
The Assignment Operator = assigns a value to a variable.  
The Multiplication Operator (*) multiplies numbers:

There are different types of JavaScript operators:

* Arithmetic Operators: used to perform arithmetic on numbers
* Assignment Operators: assign values to JS variables
* Comparison Operators
* String Operators
* Logical Operators
* Bitwise Operators
* Ternary Operators
* Type Operators

### Arithmetic Operators
+	Addition (+)
-	Subtraction (-)
*	Multiplication (*)
+ Exponentiation (ES2016) (**)	
*	Division (/)
+	Modulus (Division Remainder) (%)
-	Increment (++)
-	Decrement (--)

### Assignment Operators
* Operator (=); Example (x=y); Same as (x = y) 
* Operator (+=); Example (x += y); Same as (x = x + y)  
* Operator (-=); Example (x -= y); Same as (x = x - y)  
* Operator (*=); Example (x *= y); Same as (x = x * y)  
* Operator (/=); Example (x /= y); Same as (x = x / y)  
* Operator (%=); Example (x %= y); Same as (x = x % y)  
* Operator (**=); Example (x **= y); Same as (x = x ** y)   

### Comparison operators
-	equal to (==)
-	equal value and equal type (===)
-	not equal (!=)
-	not equal value or not equal type (!==)
-	greater than (>)
-	less than (<)
-	greater than or equal to (>=)
-	less than or equal to (<=)
-	ternary operator (?)

### String Operators
You can use comparison operators with strings.  
You can use + to concatenate strings. I fyou add numbers and strings it will return a string
The += assignment operator can also be used to add (concatenate) strings:

### Javascript logical operators
- Logical AND (&&)
- Logical OR (||)
- Logical NOT  (!)

### Type operators
- typeof: Returns the type of a variable
- instanceof: returns true if an object is an instance of an object type.
