# Class 7: Operators and loops 10/06/2023

## Reading
[Expressions and Operators](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Expressions_and_Operators)   
[Loops & Iteration](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Loops_and_iteration)  

### Expressions and operators
#### Assignment operators
An assignment operator assigns a value to its left operand based on the value of its right operand. 
Examples are: 
- Assignment: x = f()
- Addition:  x += f()
- Subtraction: x -= f()
- Multiplication: x *= f()
- Division: x /= f()
- Remainder: x %= f()
- Exponentiation: x **= f()
- Left-shift: x <<= f()
- AssigRight-shiftnment: x >>= f()
- Unsigned shift: x >>>= f()
- Bitewise AND: x &= f()
- Bitewise XOR: x ^= f()
- Bitewise OR: x |= f()
- Logical AND: x &&= f()
- Logical OR: x ||= f()
- Nullish coalescing: x ??= f()

If an expression evaluates to an object, then the left-hand side of an assignment expression may make assignments to properties of that expression.  
If an expression does not evaluate to an object, then assignments to properties of that expression do not assign  
It is an error to assign values to unmodifiable properties or to properties of an expression without properties (null or undefined).

#### Destructuring
For more complex assignments, the destructuring assignment syntax is a JavaScript expression that makes it possible to extract data from arrays or objects using a syntax that mirrors the construction of array and object literals.  
>Ex:  
const foo = ["one", "two", "three"];  
// without destructuring  
const one = foo[0];  
const two = foo[1];  
const three = foo[2];  
// with destructuring  
const [one, two, three] = foo;  

#### Comparison operators
A comparison operator compares its operands and returns a logical value based on whether the comparison is true. The operands can be numerical, string, logical, or object values.  
Strings are compared based on standard lexicographical ordering, using Unicode values. In most cases, if the two operands are not of the same type, JavaScript attempts to convert them to an appropriate type for the comparison. This behavior generally results in comparing the operands numerically. The sole exceptions to type conversion within comparisons involve the **===** and **!==** operators, which perform strict equality and inequality comparisons. These operators do not attempt to convert the operands to compatible types before checking equality.
### Loops

#### For statement
#### While statement

## Class notes
You can name two variables the same name if they are a part of different functions, as they are contained wihin the different functions. 
